Crime Analysis Chart Application - User Guide

This guide provides step-by-step instructions on how to run the Crime Analysis Application, connect to the SQLite database, and navigate through the user flow.

Prerequisites:

1. Python 3.6 or higher should be installed on your system. You can download it from the official Python website: https://www.python.org/downloads/

2. Ensure you have the required libraries installed. To do this, run the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

   pip install -r requirements.txt

Connecting to SQLite Database:

1.Navigate to the project folder and open SQLiteStudio.exe to install the SQLite Studio for User Aunthetication.

2.After the installation is complete, click on "File" > "Import" > "Database from File."

3. Browse the project folder and select the provided SQLite database file (registered_users_db) and click "Open."

4. Choose the database file and click "OK" to import it into SQLite Studio.

Running the Crime Analysis Application:

1. Navigate to the "Crime In Chicago/GUI" folder containing the application files.

2. Run the main.py file using the following command:

   python main.py

User Flow:

1. Upon running the main.py file, the Crime Analysis Application GUI will open.

2. You will be welcomed with the message "Welcome to Chart Analysis For Crime in Chicago."

3. You can choose either the "Register" or "Login" button to proceed.

4. If you are a new user, click "Register" to create an account. Enter your desired details, then click "Register."

5. If you are an existing user, click "Login" and enter your credentials (email and password) to access the application.

Generating Charts:

1. After logging in, you will be directed to the Charts window.

2. Select the type of graph you want to generate from the "Select Graph" dropdown.

3. Choose the data category for the graph from the "Select Data" dropdown.

4. Click "Generate Chart" to create the selected chart based on your chosen data category.

5. The chart will be displayed in a separate window with appropriate labels and data representation.

6. To analyze different data or generate different charts, repeat steps 2 to 4 with your desired graph and data category.

